Hi, my name is Ryan Etheridge, and you are listening to our podcast series focused around the Gospel of Christ according to Matthew.
Today's scripture focus is going to be on Matthew chapter 12, verses 1 through
Verse 1 through 21.
As you can hear
I've lost my voice yet again through just a lot of talking and singing recently. Also, you may hear some noises in the background. We've got a rescue puppy, a stranger.
A straight
Dog we found that's in the background.
pretty well behaved but it might whimper a little bit so I apologize I'll try to edit it out when I can
I think for today's reading, I'm going to break it down into two separate parts, verses 1 through 8, and then verses 9 through 21.
They do tie in together though with the main theme being
Rules concerning the Sabbath and the Mosaic Law about
what should and shouldn't be done on the Sabbath day. And also,
Really though the Pharisees the the religious leaders at the time are trying to trick Jesus is trying to catch them, right?
And so let us begin by hearing verse 1-8 of today's reading, and I am reading from the NLT today, the New Living Translation.
At about that time, Jesus was walking through some grain fields on the Sabbath.
His disciples were hungry, so they began breaking off some heads of grain and eating them.
But some Pharisees saw them do it and protested.
Look, your disciples are breaking the law by harvesting grain on the sabbath.
1. Jesus said to them, 2.
"'Haven't you read in the Scriptures "'what David did when he and his companions were hungry?'
he went into the house of god and he and his companions broke the law by eating the sacred loaves of bread that only the priests were allowed to eat
"'And haven't you read in the law of Moses "'that the priests on duty in the temple "'may work on the Sabbath?'
I tell you.
There is one here who is even greater than the temple.
But
That you would not have condemned my innocent disciples if you knew the meaning of this scripture.
I want you to show mercy
1. Not offer sacrifices. 2.
For the Son of Man is Lord.
Even over the sabbath.
I always love the passages in the Gospels where someone is trying to trick Jesus or catch him breaking a religious law or decree in order to use
to either bring charges against him or to just discredit the validity of who Christ was claiming to be.
In the beginning of his ministry.
If Jesus doesn't directly attack or try to upset the establishment, that is the complex hierarchy of religious leaders and the mosaic.
The Mosaic Laws, 1
at least in Matthew's Gospel account.
The first time that we really see Jesus being called out by the religious leaders is all the way in chapter 9.
The first eight chapters are really just related to his early life and his earliest teachings, healings, and a few miracles.
But
Beginning in chapter nine, we begin to see that Jesus is constantly being ridiculed and watched under a religious microscope by the Pharisees.
Pharisees and other religious leaders of the time in an attempt to catch him either in sin or breaking the law or giving some blasphemous teachings, right? Would that say?
that said, that said, that
It is no surprise that
And when we see in the beginning of our scripture today in chapter 12 that the
The Pharisees were quite upset at Jesus' outlook on the laws revolving around the Sabbath and what should and shouldn't be done on that particular holy day.
week.
Now, I'm not the most educated on traditional Jewish customs, but.
So if you are familiar with them, then you'll know still that even to this day, the
They take the sabbath commandments very seriously, and it is intended to be a true day of rest, rejuvenation and spiritual connection.
Or partaking in Jewish tradition, such as praying the Kedush or the Hamotzi. I hope I'm saying those right. Together as a family, those are blessings.
Blessings over wine and blessings over the challah bread. And blessings.
They'll even go so far as to often refrain from you know, driving shopping or using a lot of modern technology.
With that being said, and considering how it relates to today's passage,
Imagine if a Jewish family right here in Pensacola were going through their normal Shabbat routines on Saturday, but one of their children, say, gets into an act
into an accident and playing around and breaks their arm or has a severe cut or a wound, okay?
That child's going to be screaming, crying in pain, right?
Maybe none of the parents are doctors or have serious medical training.
But what do you think they're going to do, right? They'll certainly take that child to receive medical care from a professional facility to not do so would be direct negligence.
Negligence, right? But then again, negligence.
Thinking about the Jewish customs as the Pharisees see them back at this time, doing so would definitely break some of their Sabbath commandments.
Does God punish them for their acts of compassion and care, for the child's physical well-being?
That would be absurd, especially.
If the nature of God that we know is rooted in love, mercy, grace, and showing compassion for others, right?
So,
I love the way Jesus says it at the end of verse 8 as he speaks to the Pharisees when he says,
I want you to show mercy, not mercy.
1. Offer sacrifices. 2.
And right there, he's referencing Hosea 6.6, the prophet in one of the earlier books of the book.
of the Bible.
And so they are so caught up.
With being in line with the mosaic law and the customs that they're unable to see the larger picture around them.
Now,
Consider our own life. consider your own life for a moment.
You probably aren't consumed with abiding by the Old Testament Mosaic law like the Pharisees were, but
We each need to ask ourselves:
Is there something else that consumes our thoughts and energy in such a way that prevents us from seeing the larger picture that is right there in front of us?
of us right
Is there something in our spiritual life or in the way that we operate day to day that we are trying to maintain so hard or keep up with so meticulously like?
I like trying to mark off things on a checklist that we have forgotten to see the people around us or meet their needs or put...
Or put service to others above maintaining our own religious agenda, if it were.
Are you showing more mercy?
Or trying to provide more sacrifices
For God.
Something to consider.
Now,
This conversation or debate or argument, whatever you want to call it, between Jesus and the Pharisees continues on into the next scene, beginning with verse 9, where Jesus goes to a nearby synagogue
by synagogue, and he notices a man with a deformed hand.
They're immediately upon seeing the situation. The Pharisees try to trap Jesus again with a question they ask. They're
1. Does the law permit a person to work by healing on the Sabbath?
To which Jesus replies, kind of like a, um,
Like a wise teacher or parent, right?
With a question of his own gives them the reply, right? And man, it's never fun when you ask a question.
And then you get a question in response from someone
So,
Jesus flips the script.
Turns the onus onto the Pharisees by having them think selfishly, maybe for a moment in regards to.
Would they rescue their own flock, even if it was the sabbath?
But the ultimate mic drop, the sort of take that line is I like it. It's when Jesus claims.
Now,
How much more valuable is a person than a sheep?
And then he turns and he heals the man right then and there that's pretty cool
Jesus continues to upset the Pharisees and the establishment as he continues to heal the sick.
And often telling the recipients of those healings.
To just receive it as a blessing.
But keep it to themselves.
He asks them not to reveal who he is.
This always strikes me as interesting because
I'm thinking, wait.
Isn't Christ like trying to spread his message to all who will hear it?
All right.
Then,
Why not let those who are being healed serve as a
So walking advertisements, right? Walking billboards for what Jesus is trying to do, right?
Perhaps it was to preserve himself as much as possible, knowing how many people wanted him arrested or killed. I imagine he had to be very careful.
So he can't do his ministry with people if he's not with people.
People.
To do his ministry so that makes sense
Additionally, though, I think we can glean some wisdom from this fact that
For most of Jesus's healings, he wanted a certain veil of anonymity around himself, in a way.
And
This reminds me a lot of the teaching that he gives us about prayer and fasting.
how
We are not to let our left hand know what the right hand is doing.
Maybe.
This right here is a form of Jesus putting that teaching into action for us.
Now, I want to close today by reading verse 17 through 21 of chapter 12 for us today.
And as you hear these words
I'm going to read them very intentionally I'm going to try to
As I do,
I want you to ask if you yourself are representative of these things, since as followers of Christ, our lives.
Even though not perfect.
Should still,
And even in that unperfectness,
Point others to Christ's nature.
Here it is.
This fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah concerning Jesus.
Look in my servant, whom I have chosen.
He is my beloved who pleases me.
I will put my spirit
Upon him.
He will proclaim justice to the nations.
He will not fight.
Or shout.
Or raise his voice in public.
"'He will not crush the weakest reed.'
Or put out a flickering
Candle,
Finally,
He will cause justice to be victorious.
And his name will be the hope
Of all the world.
I hope this podcast reading has been a blessing to you as it has been to me.
And remember, be grateful today and every day.
Because each of us have something.
To be thankful for.
Thank you once again for listening to this podcast focused around the book of Matthew, produced by the cool and calm Kenny Stewart from the beautiful Perdido Bay Methodist Church.
It is the church.
We hope you have a great day.